## Warm up
Write a js function which calculates the digital root of a positive integer:
```js
digitalRoot(1609) // 7
```


# JSON Web Tokens


## What is a JWT

This is a JWT:
```js
eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9
.eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6InBpa2FjaHUiLCJpYXQiOjE1MTYyMzkwMjJ9
.mfZU-eCDbLWRnd51Hpwgh6k1dQ1GR3eU6kVEjMq3uxs
```
It comes in 3 parts, separated by `.`

The first part is the **header**:
```js
eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9
```
is a base64 encoding of
```json
{
  "alg": "HS256",
  "typ": "JWT"
}'
```

The second part is the **payload**:
```js
eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6InBpa2FjaHUiLCJpYXQiOjE1MTYyMzkwMjJ9
```
which is a base64 encoding of
```
{
  "username": "pikachu",
  "iat": 1516239022
}
```
We can put anything we want in the payload. Obviously, the password is a bad idea.

The last part is the **signature**:
```js
mfZU-eCDbLWRnd51Hpwgh6k1dQ1GR3eU6kVEjMq3uxs
```
which is a hash of the form
```js
HS256(ACCESS_TOKEN_SECRET, header + '.' + payload)
```
The secret lives on the server and nobody sees it.

Only those who have the secret can create valid JWTs for our server.


## Who gives a JWT
Sending passwords with every request is not good. We just do this on the first request to log in, and the server gives us a JWT.

Each time we want a resrource, we show the server the JWT and, if the server agrees it's correct, we can get our resource.


## Refreshing
Of course, if someone got our token, it's almost as bad as having our password. For that reason, the server actually gives us two JWTs.

The `accessToken` is sent with every request, but eventually expires. This is what the server uses to decide to deny or allow.

The `refreshToken` is kept on the frontend until the access token expires (usually 10m to 1h). Once this happens, the refresh token is sent to get a new access token.

The refresh token doesn't change until the user is logged out or re-authenticates.

Imagine trying to get your user to change their password every 10 minutes. That is the magic of JWTs.


## Key point:
 - Username and password are used to *authenticate* (usually once, at log in)
 - JWTs are then used to *authorize* with each request
